# volatile

**Important:**

_Whenever a variable is encountered in the program, the compiler reads the value of that variable from the memory. But sometimes, the compiler stores the value of the currently used variable in an un-used register for quick access(for optimization purposes). Now, when the variable is encountered next time in the program and the compiler sees that the program has no changed the value of that variable, it reads the value from the register instead of the memory._

**Accessing registers is faster than accessing memory.**

_This type of quick access, however, is not healthy and sometimes may lead to incorrect results. This generally happens when the value of a variable can by modified by some external process outside the program._

_These types of situations arise when we have memory mapped I/O variables shared among multiple processes or variables that that can be modified by interrupt routines._

**Memory mapped I/O**

_Memory mapped I/O is a way to exchange data and instructions between a CPU and peripheral devices attached to it. Memory mapped IO is one where the processor and the IO device share the same memory location(memory),i.e.,the processor and IO devices are mapped using the memory address. Memory-mapped I/O uses the same address bus to address both memory and I/O devices, and the CPU instructions used are same for accessing the memory and also accessing devices._

**Example:**

```c
while(time!=T)
	; /*Do nothing till value of variable time equals T*/
```
Consider a variable `time` that represents the current system time and its value is controlled by the system clock.

The compiler may observe that the value of variable time is not changing inside the loop, so it may access its value once from the memory and then cache this value in a register. Now, for each iteration of the loop, compiler reads this cached value from the register and hence the loop will never terminate.

_To solve this type of problem we can use_ `volatile` _qualifier._

_If a variable is declared with the qualifier_ `volatile` _then we are instructing the compiler to turn off the optimization process for that variable i.e. we are forcing the compiler to read the value of that variable from memory and not from the register each time it is encountered in the program._

_If we use the qualifier_ `const` _along with the qualifier_ `volatile`, _then the value of_ `volatile` _variable can't be changed from inside the program._

**Example:**
```c
const volatile int x;
```

_If an array, structure or union is declared as_ `volatile` _then each member becomes_ `volatile`.



---
