# Scope
> Scope of an identifier is a region of the program text where the identifier is visible i.e. the region where it can be used._

The scope of an identifier is determined by the location where it is declared.

Four kinds of scopes:

1. Block scope.
2. Function scope.
3. File scope.
4. Prototype scope.

## 1. Block scope
> Identifiers declared in the beginning of a block or in the list of parameter declarations in a function definition have block scope.

**These identifiers are visible in the whole block and their scope terminates at the end of the block.**

_Block scope variables are also called **local variables.**_


## 2. File scope
> Identifiers declared outside any function(including `main()`) have file scope.

**An identifier which has file scope is visible in all functions from its point of declaration to the end of the source file in which it is declared.**

_Global variables and functions have file scopes._


## 3. Prototype scope
Function prototype is just a declaration of a function.

It's optional to provide names to the arguments in the function prototype but if the names are provided to the arguments of the prototype then they have only prototype scope meaning that those names will exist only as long as the prototype. As soon as the prototype ends, the names also "die" out and those names can be used anywhere in the program.

Example:

```c
void display(int a);
```

This is a prototype for the function `display(int)`, the name `a` will remain only till the `prototype` remains meaning that we can use a different name while defining the function `display(int)`.

```c
void display(int var)
{
	// code
}
```

## 3. Function scope
_Label names have function scope._

**Label is an identifier that is followed by a colon and is used in** `goto` **statements and** `switch` **statements.**

_Function scope means that a label can be used anywhere in the function in which it appears, and so all the label names in the function should be unique._

In case of nested blocks, if there is an identifier which is declared both in inner block and outer block, then the identifier of outer block is hidden in the inner block.

If an identifier is declared outside blocks and also declared inside a block, then the while working inside the block the identifier that was declared inside the block will be used, the identifier used outside the block is hidden.



---
