# Storage classes

_We can specify a storage class while declaring a variable._

**Syntax:**
```c
storage_class datatype variable_name;
```

**There are four types of storage classes:**

1. Automatic( _Keyword:_ `auto`).
2. External( _Keyword:_ `extern`).
3. Static( _Keyword:_ `static`).
4. Register( _Keyword:_ `register`).

So, variables can be declared as:
```c
auto int x;
extern float d;
static int y;
register int z;
```

_When the storage class specifier is not present in the declaration, compiler assumes a default storage class based on the place of declaration._

## 1. Automatic
_All the variables declared inside a block/function without any storage class specifier are automatic variables._

We may also use the keyword `auto` to declare automatic variables.

Automatic variables initially contain garbage values.

_These variables are automatic since the storage for them is reserved automatically each time when the control enters the function/block and is released automatically when the function/block terminates._

**All automatic variables are stored on the runtime stack.**

## 2. Register
_Register storage class can be applied only to automatic variables._

The scope of register variables is same as automatic variables.

**The register variables are stored in CPU registers.**

( _Registers are small storage units present in the processor._)

**Variables stored in registers are more quickly accessible than the variables stored in memory.**

_Register variables don't have memory addresses._

**Register storage class can be specified only for** `int`, `char` **and pointer types.**

_Register storage class specifier can be applied to formal arguments of a function unlike_ `static`, `extern` _and_ `auto`.

## 3. External
_Variables that have used by many functions and in different files can be declared as external variables._

*Initial value of an uninitialized external variable is zero.*

**Definition of an external variable:** _The definition reserves storage for the variable as well as behaves as a declaration._

**Declaration of an external variable:** _The declaration of an external variable declares the type and name of the variable._

_The keyword_ `extern` _is specified in declaration but not in definition._

Consider a variable `salary`, it's definition will be written as:

```c
float salary;
```
It's declaration will be written as:
```c
extern float salary;
```

**Definition of an external variable:**

1. Definition creates the variable, so memory is allocated at the time of definition.
2. The variable can be initialized with the definition and the initializer should be constant.
3. The keyword `extern` is not specified in the definition.
4. The definition can be written only outside functions.

**Declaration of an external variable:**

1. Declaration doesnot create a variable, it only refers to a variable that has already been created somewhere, so no memory is allocated at the time of declaration.
2. There can be many declarations.
3. The variable cannot be initialized at the time of declaration.
4. The keyword `extern` is always specified at the time of declaration.
5. The declaration can be placed inside functions also.



---
