# Functions with variable arguments

*The header file* `stdarg.h` *provides the facilities needed to define functions with variable number of arguments. This file defines a new type called* `va_list` *and three macros* `va_start`, `va_arg`, `va_end` *that can operate on variables of this new type.*


## Type

|Type|Description|
|:--:|:---------:|
|`va_list`| _Used to declare argument pointer variables_ |

## Macros

|Macro|Description|
|:---:|:---------:|
|`va_start`| _Initializes the argument pointer variable_ |
|`va_arg`| _Retrieves the current argument and increments the argument pointer_ |
|`va_end`| _Assigns NULL to argument pointer_ |

*A function that accepts variable number of arguments should be defined with ellipsis(`...`) at the end of the argument list.*

> The ellipsis should occur at the end of the argument list and there should at least be on fixed argument.

Example:

```c
void func(char*str, int num, ...)
{
	.........
	.........
}
```
Notice the ellipsis(`...`) at the end of the argument list of `func()`. That's mandatory.

`func()` takes two fixed arguments `str` and `num` and after that it can accept any number of arguments.

Here are the example function calls to `func()`:
```c
func("Hello World", 45, 55, 12, 'A', "Delhi", 34);
func("C", 12, "Hello", 60);
func("Program", 12);
```

No matter what type of arguments you send to `func()` but the first two arguments have to be a string and an integer.

Inside `func()` we will be able to access the first two arguments using their names, but the for the rest of the arguments we will have to use the [macros](https://github.com/C0DER11101/CPrograms/blob/CProgramming/Miscellaneous/7.md#macros) to access the rest of the arguments in `func()`.

**How we can access the unnamed aguments in** `func()` **(or in any function)**

1. Initially we declare a variable of type `va_list` which will be an argument pointer variable:
```c
va_list ap;
```
2. `va_start` initializes `ap` and makes it point to the first unnamed argument passed to the function. This macro takes two arguments, first one is the argument pointer `ap` and second one is the name of the last **fixed** argument passes to the function(in our case it will be the `int` type fixed argument just before the ellipsis in `func()`). `va_start` will be called as:
```c
va_start(ap, num);
```
3. Now, we can access individual variable arguments sequentially by using `var_arg`. This macro takes `ap`(argument pointer variable) and the datatype of the current argument as parameters:
```c
arg=va_arg(ap, datatype);
```
It returns the value of the current argument and increments the pointer `ap` so that it points to the next argument. To get the value of the next unnamed argument after the first one, we need to call `va_arg` again. **If the datatype of the current argument in the function call doesnot match with the datatype in** `va_arg` **then the behaviour is undefined.**
4. The macro `va_end` should be called before exiting from the function. This macro sets the argument pointer to `NULL`.
```c
va_end(ap);
```
_The unnamed arguments can't be called after calling_ `va_end`. _If we want to use those arguments then once again we will have to initialize_ `ap` _with_ `va_start`.


---
